# BIOMD0000000048: 

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000048.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000048.git@20140916`

## Usage

Importing the model package.

`import BIOMD0000000048 as model`

Get the SBML string from the model

`print model.sbmlString`

If [python-libsbml](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-libsbml) bindings are
installed, the libsbml.SBMLDocument object is also accessible

`model.sbml`


# Model Notes


Kholodenko1999 - EGFR signaling

This model has been generated by  **the JWS Online project by Jacky Snoep
using [PySCeS](http://pysces.sourceforge.net/)  
Run this model online at
[http://jjj.biochem.sun.ac.za](http://jjj.biochem.sun.ac.za/)  
To cite JWS Online please refer to: Olivier, B.G. and Snoep, J.L. (2004) [Web-
based modelling using JWS
Online](http://bioinformatics.oupjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/20/13/2143)
, Bioinformatics, 20:2143-2144 **

This model is described in the article:

[Quantification of short term signaling by the epidermal growth factor
receptor.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/10514507)

Kholodenko BN, Demin OV, Moehren G, Hoek JB

J. Biol. Chem. 1999 Oct; 274(42): 30169-30181

Abstract:

During the past decade, our knowledge of molecular mechanisms involved in
growth factor signaling has proliferated almost explosively. However, the
kinetics and control of information transfer through signaling networks remain
poorly understood. This paper combines experimental kinetic analysis and
computational modeling of the short term pattern of cellular responses to
epidermal growth factor (EGF) in isolated hepatocytes. The experimental data
show transient tyrosine phosphorylation of the EGF receptor (EGFR) and
transient or sustained response patterns in multiple signaling proteins
targeted by EGFR. Transient responses exhibit pronounced maxima, reached
within 15-30 s of EGF stimulation and followed by a decline to relatively low
(quasi-steady-state) levels. In contrast to earlier suggestions, we
demonstrate that the experimentally observed transients can be accounted for
without requiring receptor-mediated activation of specific tyrosine
phosphatases, following EGF stimulation. The kinetic model predicts how the
cellular response is controlled by the relative levels and activity states of
signaling proteins and under what conditions activation patterns are transient
or sustained. EGFR signaling patterns appear to be robust with respect to
variations in many elemental rate constants within the range of experimentally
measured values. On the other hand, we specify which changes in the kinetic
scheme, rate constants, and total amounts of molecular factors involved are
incompatible with the experimentally observed kinetics of signal transfer.
Quantitation of signaling network responses to growth factors allows us to
assess how cells process information controlling their growth and
differentiation.

The model correctly reproduces all the figures from the paper. The curation
has been done using SBMLodeSolver.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000048](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000048) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


